Good morning, Concord.
Good morning.
Everybody excited to be here and back in the routine, back in school, all that stuff.
If you live in about a three mile radius of the Burkett house, I'm sure you heard that collective groan inside Thursday morning on the day that my daughter Aslan affectionately referred to as throw up Thursday.
So she was really excited to get school going again.
My name is Jay Burkett, and I'm a member of the pulpit ministry team.
And if you were not here last week,
We had Derek Spain to fill the pulpit and Derek is the man that the Lord has led our team to recommend to you for the position of interim senior pastor.
And we will make that recommendation in the form of emotion at our regularly scheduled business meeting this Wednesday at 6 30.
So make sure you're here for that this Wednesday 6 30 and we'll make that motion.
We're very excited about it because Lord willing what that will enable our team to do is to focus 100% of our efforts.
and prayers and attention and focus on finding the man the Lord has already found and already appointed to be our next senior pastor here at Concord.
That's exciting to think about.
We're very excited for me to be able to introduce to you once again this morning, Derek Spain.
Thank you.
It's great to be back at Concord and looking forward to all that God has in store for us.
If you have a Bible,
Please open it to Luke, chapter 19.
Like you take your Bible and open to Luke, chapter 19.
And as you're turning there, I'll ask you the question.
So what's your story?
Or maybe another way to say it would be you're talking to someone and you say, hey, tell me a little bit about yourself.
Depending on the setting, that answer comes a little different, right?
So if someone says, what's your story?
Tell me about yourself.
If you're in a work setting, then they're gonna be talking about business and what my job is and our company and things like that.
If it's in a family situation, you're immediately gonna talk about kids and spouse and grandkids and those things.
If you're at a leisure activity, you might talk about how long you've been involved in this hobby or sport or whatever you're talking about.
If you're a church, what's your story, a lot of times, we would think with our spiritual mind on and we would think, ah,
This is my story of faith in Christ.
I'd like to tell you my story of faith in Christ in 20 seconds.
You ready?
You get your time already?
Everybody doesn't have it on a watch anymore.
You have it on your phone.
Here's my story.
There was a time in my life that I was a good person, but I was very selfish, self-centered, and I was spiritually lost.
Somebody told me about Jesus.
And all that he did for me on the cross and how he rose from the dead.
And I placed my faith in him.
He changed me forever.
And now I have purpose and meaning in life.
And I have the promise and assurance of heaven after I die.
So in about 20 seconds, I just share with you my story.
There's a lot more details.
And I'm going to get to some of those this morning.
But how would you tell your story?
of faith in Christ.
Well, one guy, Zacchaeus, would talk about in Luke chapter 19, how salvation came to this house.
As we think about this text today from the Bible, here on all of our campuses and online, as you're listening to this message, I pray that each person would examine your own heart and ask the question,
First of all, do I know Jesus as my Lord and Savior?
Because if He is your Lord and Savior, then you have a story of faith.
And if He is your Savior, I pray that today, through God's Word, you'll be reminded and encouraged and inspired and even equipped to share your story with others.
That it'll be a really good day to celebrate all that God has been doing in your life, is doing now, and wants to do in the future.
And as you share your story with others, that others may come to Christ.
But there may be some on our campuses today, and you don't yet know Jesus as your Lord and Savior.
It may be that you come to church every week, or maybe this is your first time at a church ever in a long time.
But if you were to get real honest with God, you would say, I don't really have a genuine story of faith in Christ.
If you're to answer it, you say, Jesus is not yet my Lord and Savior.
He's not.
The good news for you today is before you leave today, he can be.
He can save you.
He wants to save you.
And so my prayer today, all over our campuses at Concord, is that God would bring salvation to these houses.
That God would bring salvation to the lost.
And for those of us who know Christ,
that today would be a day that we are equipped, inspired, and encouraged and challenged to share our story with others.
Could I ask you to stand please for the reading of God's word?
Luke chapter 19, beginning in verse one.
Here's what the Bible says.
He entered Jericho and was passing through.
There was a man named Zacchaeus who was a chief tax collector, and he was rich.
He was trying to see who Jesus was,
but he was not able because of the crowd, because he was a short man.
So running ahead, he climbed up a sycamore tree to see Jesus, since he was about to pass that way.
When Jesus came to the place, he looked up and said, Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, because today it is necessary for me to stay at your house.
So he quickly came down and he welcomed him joyfully.
All who saw it began to complain,
He's going to stay with a sinful man.
But Zacchaeus stood there and said to the Lord, look, I'll give half of my possessions to the poor Lord.
And if I have extorted anything from anyone, I'll pay back four times as much.
Today, salvation has come to this house, Jesus told him, because he too is the son of Abraham, for the son of man has come to seek and to save the lost.
Let's pray together.
Our Heavenly Father, we thank You that we have worshiped You already this morning through singing, through giving, ties, and offerings, through prayers, through encouraging and fellowshiping with one another.
And now Father, through the teaching of Your Word, we pray through Your Holy Spirit that You would speak to us and that we would not just be hears of the Word, but we would do what it says.
And so Father, my prayer today is that every believer
who hears this message will be encouraged, equipped, and inspired to share their story of faith with others this week.
And Father, also my prayer is that those who hear this message today that are lost, today will be the day of their salvation, that their lives will be changed for all of eternity.
And it's in Jesus' name we pray, amen.
So what's your story?
Let me try to summarize my story in Zacchaeus' story and maybe even frame your story with three phrases.
The first thing we want to think about is my life before I met Jesus.
My life before I met Jesus.
So think about your life in that way.
So I grew up in the Dakula area.
Some of you may remember, I sort of shared a little bit about myself last week.
I grew up in the Dakula community.
I'm going to get to my salvation story just a moment, but a little of my background in terms of since I've been out of high school, graduate from Dakula High School.
I went to shorter university.
That's where I met my wife.
I served as a student pastor at Hebrew for 10 years.
Kim and I have been married for 25 years.
We have three children.
Our oldest son, Grant, is 21.
Our middle son, our middle child is a son.
Andy is 18.
Just graduated from D'Cula High School.
And our daughter is 15 in a couple of weeks, and she goes to the Cula High School.
So two boys and a girl, that's her family.
Student pastor, Heaven, for 10 years.
And then the Lord gave me the opportunity to serve.
So we heard this last week as a lead pastor in Lake Placid, New York.
the mountains of New York and was there for ten years serving there, Lake Pastor by this church as the lead pastor, senior pastor, and then also near my time there was a missionary with the North American Mission Board.
And the assignment was to get the gospel to the winter sports athletes of the world.
And so that was where we spent a lot of our time, a lot of our focus was getting the gospel to those guys and girls.
And then
Eight years ago, the Lord called us back to Georgia, and I served as the executive pastor, the number two guy at Hebron, and I was there for about seven and a half years in that role.
And so that sort of brings us to today.
So I grew up in Dicula.
In those days, Dicula was very much a farming community.
My grandparents had cattle farms and
We had an old chicken house on my grandparents house that we would go in and play in.
There weren't any chickens in there any longer, but that was the...
So, here we grew up.
About a mile down the road was a small Baptist church, and that was the church that my family had been part of for generations.
A lot of my family
grandparents, great-grandparents, et cetera, are buried in the cemetery right beside there.
So that was the church where I first heard the stories of Jesus.
We went to Bible school.
That was the place where I first heard the message of salvation.
And so if you were to describe my early life, I would say it this way.
It sort of revolved around three things.
A revolved around church, a revolved around family, and a revolved around sports.
That was sort of me as a kid.
I was a good kid, but church and family and sports.
I played baseball when I was first, sort of playing baseball when I was six, sort of playing basketball when I was eight, playing football when I was 10, because that's when our town offered those sports first, and that's so when I started to play them.
But in terms of spiritually, even though I was a good kid and I knew all the Bible stories, I was lost.
And I knew I was lost because my language all throughout middle school was running towards sinful.
My attitude towards my parents and towards others was not godly at all.
I had no desire to read the Bible to do what Jesus said.
Now I went to church and I knew the Bible stories, but I had no desire to really live it out in my life.
And when I would think about eternity as a young middle schooler, I knew that I was lost.
I knew if at any moment that I died, I knew what the Bible said and it scared me to death because I knew at that moment, I, if I died, was going to go to hell.
That was my condition.
The Bible says all have sinned and come short of the glory of God.
The Bible says there is none that was righteous, no not one.
Zacchaeus was a man
that the Bible tells us a lot about him.
He lived in Jericho.
He was a tax collector, the Bible said.
Many of you know that in those days the Roman government gave the tax collectors a lot of freedom and latitude.
They had to collect the required taxes that the government asked for, but anything that they through coercion or force or any other way could collect above that, they were allowed to keep for themselves.
The Bible says Zacchaeus
was very rich.
So he was a tax collector that was very rich.
He probably was greedy.
He was a guy because of his job was not very liked.
So he was known but not very popular.
Now from some people, those who were just chasing money and possessions, he would have been a guy they would have said very successful.
because he was rich.
We probably know that Zacchaeus may have been pretty miserable.
Money didn't buy him happiness.
Zacchaeus we know was seeking.
It talks about when Jesus was coming to town, he was seeking.
He was seeking a lot of things.
He was seeking answers.
He was seeking.
Zacchaeus was also very, everybody knows was very short.
The Bible tells us this,
Kids many times grew up singing and generations grew up singing the song.
Zacchaeus was a wee little man and a wee little man was he.
That means short kids.
That's what we means.
That means short.
It's an old fashioned word that means short.
Zacchaeus was short and quite frankly in that culture and in any culture, sometimes people who were shorter than everybody else, they feel like they don't.
Are you ready for a little pun?
they feel like they don't measure up, right?
They feel like they don't measure up.
And they literally can't see above the crowds.
And they many times do have a bit of a, you know, sort of complex about things, but it's true actually many people, it doesn't matter if they're short or if they're tall, if they're skinny or if they're bigger, their hair is brown or blonde or red.
People, many times guys, this is just human nature, are dissatisfied with our appearance.
And we get all frustrated about that.
We're too young, we're too old, we're this, we're that.
Zacchaeus was a person just like anybody else that had insecurities.
Perhaps he was lonely.
Perhaps he was in many ways seeking the answers that on this day he was gonna find.
So my question to you is, if I were to ask you the question, what was your life like?
Before you met Jesus, what would you say?
If your life before Jesus, so think about that.
And maybe even on your page, write some things down.
My life before Jesus was.
You may have heard me say it earlier when I said my 22nd testimony.
I was a good person, but I was sinful, self-centered, spiritually lost.
That was me.
I was destined for hell.
What was your life like before Christ?
The reason I ask you that question is because I'm praying for each of you that God would give you the opportunity even this week maybe to share your story with someone else.
And how do you share your story unless you've thought about, this is what my story is.
When you also reflect on
What your life was like before Christ.
You are so grateful for how Jesus has changed you.
So my life before Christ.
My life before I met Jesus.
That was Zacchaeus' story and that was my story.
Here's number two.
How I met Jesus.
Zacchaeus would say it this way.
He would talk about going to a sycamore tree.
Let me tell you how I met Jesus, how he found me.
I was 13 years old.
It was February of 1985.
As a matter of fact, I remember it was February 8th, 1985.
And through the beauty of Google and the internet, I'd be able to verify that that date is correct.
It was a Friday night, and we were having one our church called a youth revival.
So the guest speaker, guest musicians, and they came, and they sang.
And he shared a message of salvation.
As a matter of fact, He shared a message very similar to this.
He shared a message that said that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God.
We've all sinned, we've all messed up.
And the wages of sin is death.
The payment that we deserve for our sin is death, spiritual death, separation from God forever.
But God demonstrates His love towards us in this.
While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
So His message was you were
lost because of your sin, but Jesus died on the cross to pay the penalty of your sin that you don't have to face the penalty that you deserve.
And so even though the wages are sent as death, the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
And so we are sinners and eat of a savior.
Jesus saved, Jesus died that we might be safe and he offers the gift of salvation to everyone who will believe.
The Bible says in Romans chapter 10, verses nine and 10, that if you will confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved because this was the heart you believe under righteousness and with the mouth confession is made to salvation.
So his message and my message, the message of the Bible is that if you will, it's something you believe so much in your heart that you're unashamed to say out loud, is that I believe Jesus died for me and rose again.
And on that night, February of 1985, it's like a spiritual light bulb came on in my heart.
It's like Jesus, yes, He died for the sins of others, but He died for me.
And I need Him to save me.
The Bible says, whoever calls the name of the Lord shall be saved.
We call on His name, we call on His name through prayer.
And on that night, at the end of the worship service, I went and told our pastor, I said,
We were singing a song at the end and I said, I need to give my life to Christ.
And so with one of the gentlemen in our church, I knelt and I prayed and said, Jesus, he told me, he says, listen, Derek, you can pray quietly in your heart if you want to.
But man, if you don't mind, pray it out loud so I can hear it.
And I did.
I prayed out loud.
And I said something similar to this.
I said, Jesus, you died for me.
I am a sinner and I need you to save me.
Jesus, the best I know how, right now by faith, I ask you to come into my heart and save me.
I believe that you died from me and rose again.
I commit my life to you.
Thank you for saving me, Jesus.
Help me to never be ashamed of you.
That's how I met Jesus.
Through his Holy Spirit, he drew me to salvation.
He showed me the truth in his word, and on that night, I asked him to save me, and he did.
How about you?
How did you meet Jesus?
Zacchaeus met him this way.
Zacchaeus heard Jesus was coming to town.
Remember last week if you were here, we talked about if we approached life like Jesus did on mission everywhere, then we would see crowds of people.
And we would feel the compassion of Jesus felt.
And we would hear the call, the call to give, the call to pray, the call to go with the message of salvation.
Jesus saw not just the crowds of people, but he saw the individuals in the crowd, the individuals that need his life.
And on this day, Jesus saw a very short man full of ingenuity, full of drive and desire seeking him, a guy who climbed up in a tree so he could see.
And the Bible says something really interesting in verse five.
It says, when Jesus came to the place,
The place, the place that Zacchaeus met Jesus.
And then Jesus says, would you quickly come down Zacchaeus because I'm going to stay at your house.
So he came down and welcomed Jesus joyfully.
It's interesting, right?
Unfortunately, there were some people who grumbled and complained.
Why is Jesus going to spend time with this sinful man?
A sinful man.
I mean, all the people in the crowd, all the men and women were sinful.
including the people who made this statement.
Jesus just chose to go to the one who was ready to say yes to him.
Jesus could have spent time with any of them.
They would have all been the same boat as Zacchaeus lost in need of a savior.
Jesus chose on that day because of Zacchaeus's heart because of what Jesus and his sovereignty he brought salvation to Zacchaeus.
Where did Zacchaeus
How did he meet Jesus?
He met him on a road in Jericho, and then he met Jesus at his house.
Just like this young lady that was baptized this morning, she met Jesus at her house.
I'm asking you, where did you meet Jesus?
And for some of you, you need to say today on this campus, at all of our campuses, online, I need to meet Jesus in this house.
Wherever you're at, you need to meet Jesus today, inviting him in to be the Lord and Savior of your life.
And you literally could pray a prayer that says, Jesus saved me.
If you understand, he died for you and rose again.
He becomes a savior of your life and will change your life forever.
How did you meet Jesus?
If you already know him, maybe jot some of those things down.
I mean, oh, some of you, you say I met Jesus when I was watching a Billy Graham crusade on TV, or maybe I had a Billy Graham crusade.
I mean, some of you know what him number of just as I am was being played.
when you gave your life to Christ.
Some of you might say, I was out in a field all by myself, just me and God, or down by a river, by a lake.
I was at a church service.
I was in a Bible study.
It was a youth group activity.
I was here, I was there.
My question to you is, how did you meet Jesus?
We're just reading the Bible by yourself.
Did you hear a message?
Did your parents explain it to you?
Maybe a friend, maybe a youth pastor?
How did you meet Jesus?
You need to know this.
so that you haven't settled in your heart, but you also need to know this so you can share it with others.
Because again, I ask you, this week you wanted to go to someone and say, hey, what's your story?
And you want them to tell you the story of faith.
And they tell you something, whatever the best they can, but you just say for a moment, can I tell you my story?
Here's what my life was like before Christ.
Here's how I met Jesus.
How powerful, this should be the regular,
conversation that we're having as believers in Christ.
Here's how I met Jesus.
Number three is this.
How Jesus changed my life.
Let me tell you for me.
Here's how Jesus changed my life.
So I got saved on a Friday night.
The next day was Saturday morning.
My little brother had a basketball game and so I went with my parents and we were watching the game.
And like normal I was hanging out with my buddies.
And like normal, they began to make some comments about some of the girls that were there that were inappropriate.
Got it?
Enough said.
And I remembered there was for the first time in my life the conviction of the Holy Spirit that said to me, I don't need to say things like that anymore.
I don't even need to listen to things like that anymore.
Guys, almost immediately there was a desire to read God's Word.
A desire to live a life of holiness and obedience to God's word.
There was the peace of the Holy Spirit and the conviction of the Holy Spirit in my life.
There was a desire to be obedient in every way.
As a matter of fact, two days after I got saved, I got baptized on Sunday.
Now, let me pause for just a second to say this.
I had grown up going to church, as I said.
I had actually become a church member of that church when I was 10 years old.
because it was sort of expected about that age to become a church member.
And I got baptized when I was 10, but I didn't know the Lord.
I didn't know the Lord at all.
As a matter of fact, you could have seen, again, as I described earlier, the pattern of my life, anywhere except church.
The church had everybody fooled.
They thought I was a good kid, saved.
I knew I was lost, God knew I was lost, until the night I got saved.
So two days after I gave my life to Christ, I got baptized.
Some people might say you got baptized twice.
I would say no the first time I just got wept.
Because baptism is a testimony of faith in Christ.
So there may be some people here on some of our campuses and today at the end of the service you need to come and talk to one of the pastors and say very soon I need to get baptized.
Because I want to be obedient to God's word.
Because your testimony maybe is that you got saved after you got baptized.
You got baptized when you were younger.
But then you gave your life to Christ and I would challenge you to be obedient to God's word to get baptized as a follower of Jesus.
To tell the world I'm a follower of Christ.
Jesus changed my life in so many ways.
He gave me a desire to live for him, a desire for others to know him.
35 years since I got saved, I haven't gotten over it.
I want other people to come into
God's family to know Jesus as their Lord and Savior.
But you know one of the main things that changed immediately, and it's still true to this day, when I gave my life to Christ, when I began to think about eternity, no longer was there any fear.
None.
When I think about eternity today, I know when I close my eyes for the last time on earth and open my eyes,
in eternity, I am going to be in heaven with a Lord forever and ever and ever.
There is such peace in my heart about eternity because of Jesus.
And I ask you, has Jesus changed your life in that way?
Is there a desire for his word, a desire to live for him?
Is there a desire that others would know him?
Is there a desire for holiness?
Let me show you in Zacchaeus's life.
It says in verse eight, but Zacchaeus
stood there, this is in his house, and said to our Lord, to the Lord, look, I'll give half of my possessions to the poor.
Lord, let's stop there for a second.
Zacchaeus, who had accumulated and spent his entire professional life accumulating stuff, realized when he met Jesus, stuffed up, make me happy.
I'm giving half of it away.
Giving it away.
Just in that moment, he gave half of it away to the poor, to bless others who needed it.
And then he went further and said, on a very specific personal level with people, he says, and if I have extorted anything from anyone, I'll pay them back four times as much.
All the people who have been wronged by Zacchaeus, he was going to now bless them.
This is a picture of true repentance.
He didn't do this because Jesus made him.
He did it because God put in his heart.
to want to be obedient and to be a blessing to others.
So he went from greed to generosity.
His life was changed forever.
And Jesus clearly says in verse nine and 10, Jesus told him today, salvation has come to this house because he too is a son of Abraham, not just in terms of ethnicity, but in terms of spirituality.
For the son of man has come to seek and to save
The lost.
So let's wrap it all up and pull it together.
So let's talk about your story.
Some of you, your story today is, I know Jesus is my Lord and Savior.
So I ask you, could you verbalize this week?
Who is it that you could this week tell?
This is my life before Christ, before I met Jesus.
This is how I met Jesus.
This is how Jesus has changed my life.
Because if you're taking notes, I would ask you maybe to write down God as a prayer.
God, give me a chance to share my story this week.
And for some of you, you need to take it a step further, further, because you know whom God's leading you to share with.
And maybe you need to write God, give me a chance this week to share my story with and put their name right there.
You love them that much, you care about them, you want them to know Christ.
You might want to just leave that blank because you say God,
Give me the opportunity to share with many because we share our story so that we can share his story of how he can save them.
We share our faith because we want salvation to come to this house wherever they are every day.
But some of you are here today in this place and across all of our campuses and even online.
And you say today, Derek, if I'm getting really honest, I need to give my life to Christ today.
I want to ask you if that's you, then will you pray with me right now, all of us, if you'll bow your heads and close your eyes across all of our campuses?
This day, if you say, today, I recognize that I need Jesus to be my Lord and Savior.
And the best way I can respond today, the way that I need to respond,
I need to give my life to Christ.
Then with heads bowed and eyes closed across all of our campuses.
Would you just pray something like this to the Lord?
You could pray it out loud or you could pray it quietly in your heart.
God hears you just the same.
But if you say today, I need to give my life to Christ, then would you pray something like this to him right now?
Say, dear Jesus, I am a sinner and I need you to save me.
Jesus, I believe that you died from me on the cross and you rose from the dead.
And right now by faith, I ask you to come into my life, forgive me of my sins, and save me.
Thank you for saving me, Jesus.
I commit my life to you.
Help me to never be ashamed of you.
And now all across our campuses,
We want to tell you how you can respond in the next few minutes to what God's leading you to do.
Here in this place, I want to ask you, did you just pray with me and pray and say, Jesus, I need you to be my savior?
If so, in just a moment, we're going to stand and we're going to sing.
And I want to ask you to have a little bit of courage, but man, you're in a place where people love you.
And man, they are so excited when God's working in people's lives.
Man, this church family will celebrate what God's doing in your life.
So from the youngest person in the room to the oldest, if you say today, I prayed and asked Jesus to be my Lord and Savior.
Maybe you're a person that's been going to church here all your life, or maybe today is the first time you've ever been or you're somewhere in between.
I want to ask you,
If you prayed with me or if you needed to, and you are ready to say today, I want to receive salvation.
When we stand in just a moment, I'm asking you to come to me or one of the other leaders at the front and just take us by the hand and say today, I want to give my life to Christ.
That's the first group of people I want to ask to come in just a moment.
At the same time, there may be others who say, you know what, Derek, you spoke on something that's me.
I am a person who has given my life to Christ,
But since then, I've never been baptized.
And you need to respond.
I'm going to ask you to come and walk down to the front and let us talk to you about that and get that set up as soon as possible.
There may be others.
You want to come and say, you know what?
Well, I could tell this is the kind of church I want to be a member of.
And you want to come to me or one of the other leaders and pastors and say, today I'm making a commitment that Concord is going to be my church home.
And let's get that process started.
There may be others who wanna come and pray for other reasons.
You just wanna come and pray here at the front.
You're invited to do that too.
So I'm gonna ask us after I pray in just a moment for all of us to stand.
And as God's leading you to come, I'm asking you to come.
Lord Jesus, may you have your way now in doing these next few moments, this time of invitation and response.
Help each of us to respond the way you're calling us to respond.
It's in Jesus' name we pray, amen.
As we stand,
If God's leading you to come, you come right now.
Come.